# IBM Employee Attrition Dataset Analysis
 The rising demand for a better workplace culture has caused more awareness among employees. This may often pose a threat or prove to be a heavy loss to most organizations. It is here where the dataset ‘Employee Attrition’ comes in handy. The employer can take into account various parameters ranging from employee’s date of joining, marital status to promotion level to help identify common factors that lead towards more attrition rate and therefore analyze what could probably be a solution to overcome the same. Failing to offer a promotion to the deserving employees can impact the organization with them leaving. This has a significant impact on the employer as they may lose their most talented employees and that will effect the growth of the organization. A various combination of factors can play a pivotal role that leads to the exit of an employee. 
 
 Gender of the employee may be one such factor and given each individual has unique choices that contribute for them to stay or leave, it is good to be informed of the most common factors that align with each of the genders to stay or leave. It is important for the organization to understand if any specific factors play a vital role that leads to a higher attrition rate. Each organization can use these data points to their advantage in trying to improve the policies in place, thereby being successful in retaining its employees which eventually boosts the employee-employer satisfaction levels and creates a win-win situation for both. One aspect they can judge for this is based on whether the employees weigh more on the monetary side benefits or the non-monetary side of benefits to retain its employees. It is significant for the organization to know this as it helps them understand what kind of investment they need to make to hone the welfare of the organization. For instance, if it turns out that non-monetary side of benefits weigh more for most employees, then the organization would be losing a lot of money and also employees had they only invested monetarily. It is here that it will come in handy to understand and make the right switch to enhance non-monetary benefits.
 
 Lastly, say, the organization did analyze all these patterns and set up what seems to be a good (better) workplace, it is with the induction of new hires that they can understand if they have been successful or not in improving the standards to work. If not, based on how soon the new hire decides to leave, the organization has the data pertaining to the aspects that needs to be worked upon. With employees leaving, the organization pays a huge price in terms of time invested in each individual, monetary investment into training new hires, relocation benefits if applicable, recreational benefits, goodies and so on. So it is of utmost importance that an organization is able to pick the right employees, and by that we mean those that will stay with the organization in the long run and this analysis will help in analyzing just that.

To help the organization overcome the issue of many employees resigning, we shall analyze some possible aspects that may lead to the exit of an employee. Once this data is obtained, the organization will be well informed with the possible problematic areas. This data will then help the organization in reflecting and bringing in change to try and decrease its employee attrition rate. 

Summarizing some of the aspects we covered above we aim to analyze:

- Are the employees who weren’t offered promotion relatively earlier, more likely to leave?
- Is there any specific combination of factors that results in high attrition for any given employee?
- What is more important to employees, the monetary side of their jobs or the non-monetary side like culture, work-life balance, training, etc. of the company?
- What is more important to employees, the monetary side of their jobs or the non-monetary side like culture, work-life balance, training, etc. of the company?
- What is more important to employees, the monetary side of their jobs or the non-monetary side like culture, work-life balance, training, etc. of the company?
  

    

